Overview
Candidates who qualify in Common Entrance Test (CET) conducted and allotted seats by Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA), Government of Karnataka are eligible to take admissions for the Under Graduate Engineering / Architecture courses in UVCE. The selection of candidates to the college is done by counselling through KEA. Candidates allotted seats under Schemes of Government of India through MoE/MHRD are also eligible to take admission in UVCE for Under Graduate Engineering / Architecture Courses. Candidates qualified in the GATE (GoI) and PGCET (GoK) are eligible to the Post Graduate courses. Candidates qualified in the test conducted by the Bangalore University (BU)/UVCE are eligible for Research programmes leading to Doctoral Degrees. Admission to UVCE is strictly on the basis of merit and Reservation Policy of Government of Karnataka.

==instructions==
Admission Procedure for Candidates allotted seats through Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA), Govt. of Karnataka for admitting to First Year B.Tech & B.Arch at University of Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE), Bengaluru.

After the allotment of seats (to different courses at UVCE) by KEA, the candidates can approach Admission Office at UVCE, K.R Circle, Bengaluru for taking formal admission.
Application forms can be obtained from the Admission Office, UVCE on production of:
Admission order issued by KEA
Documents as applicable
No extra Fee needs to be paid at UVCE (Other than Fee paid to the KEA at the time of downloading Admission Order).
Following documents need to be produced along with duly filled in application form for Admission to First Year B.Tech & B.Arch at the time of taking formal admission to Under Graduate Courses at UVCE (All Original Documents and two sets of Attested Xerox copies):
CET Seat Allotment Order issued by KEA
PUC/12th Std Marks Card (will be returned to the candidate once the admission is approved)
Transfer Certificate (TC)
Migration Certificate (for CBSE/Outside Karnataka students)
Three Passport-Size photographs
SSLC/ 10th Marks Card
Additional Documents (As Applicable)
Caste Certificate (if seat allotted under Caste Category)
Income Certificate (for claiming fee concession)
Rural Certificate (if seat allotted under Rural Quota)
Kannada Medium Certificate (if seat allotted under Kannada Medium Quota)
Study/Character/Conduct Certificate issued by Institution last studied
Defence/ex-Defence/NCC/P.H/ Sport Certificate (for Special Category Candidates)
NATA Score Copy (for Architecture Students only)

NOTE: Civil & Architecture students are also required to complete their admission process at K R Circle, Bangalore.

==Hostel admission==
Procedure for Hostel admission will be updated soon. However, details are available in UVCE admission office, K.R Circle, Bengaluru.

==Intake==
Candidates who qualify in Common Entrance Test (CET) / Aptitude test conducted by Government of Karnataka are eligible to the Under Graduate Engineering / Architecture courses. The selection of candidates to the college is done by counselling at CET centre by the Government.

 
Year 2021-22
Four year full time UG(BE) courses
Civil Engineering	   126   	Mechanical Engineering	   168   
Computer Science Engineering	74	Information Science Engineering	63
Electrical & Electronics Engineering	84	Electronics & Communication Engineering	126
Artifical Intelligence Engineering	63		
Five year full time UG course
B.Arch in Architecture	40
Two year full time PG(ME) courses
(i) Civil	94	(iv) Mechanical	72
1. Construction Technology	10	13. Machine Design	18
2. Geo-Technical Engineering	12	14. Manufacturing Science Engineering	18
3. Structural Engineering	14	15. Thermal Science Engineering	18
4. Highway Engineering	10	16. Advanced Material Technology	18
5. Pre - Stressed Concrete	10	(v) Computer Science	79
6. Water Resource Engineering	10	17. Computer Science Engineering	18
7. Environmental Engineering	10	18. Information Technology	25
8. Earthquake Engineering	18	19. Software Engineering	18
(ii) Electrical	50	20. Computer Networking	18
9. Power and Energy Systems	14	21. Bioinformatics	18
10. Power Electronics	18	22. Web Technologies	18
11. Control and Instrumentation	18	(vi) Architecture	36
(iii) Electronics	25	23. Landscape Architecture	18
12. Electronics & Communication	25	24. Construction & Project Management	18
Government of India UG Exchange programme	35
M.Sc(Engg) by Research, three year full time Ph.D, four year part time Ph.D programmes in
all disciplines and Ph.D(QIP) programme in Civil Engineering.
Intake: Total(1159) | BE(704) | BArch(40) | ME(392) | GOI(35) | Ph.D(102)
