UVCE offers the following departments:

1. Mechanical Engineering
2. Civil Engineering
3. Electrical Engineering
4. Electronics and Communication Engineering
5. Computer Science and Information Science Engineering
6. Architecture

1.Mechanical engineering
The Department of Mechanical Engineering was established in 1917.
Department of Mechanical Engineering

The University of Visvesvaraya College of Engineering, popularly known as UVCE, is one of the most prestigious colleges imparting Technical Education in the state of Karnataka.The College as well as the Department of Mechanical Engineering was established in the year 1917 by the greatest Engineer of the Country, Statesman of modern times Bharata Ratna Sir. M. Visvesvaraya. Since the beginning,the department has grown beyond leaps and bounds producing highly competent graduates,postgraduates and doctorates who have occupied prestigious positions both in India and abroad.The department currently offers one Undergraduate (B.E Fulltime & Part-time) and Four Postgraduate (M.E) Programmes.

The mechanical engineering department awarded more than 140 Ph.D degrees. At present there are 25 candidates pursuing their Ph.D. The teaching faculty has engaged in a number of R & D projects sponsored by UGC, AICTE, MHRD, AR&DB, ADA, Naval Research Board, etc. Presently, 16 full time faculty are serving the institute. There are 12 Professors, 4 Associate Professors. The department has set Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic and Time bound (SMART) objectives in achieving academic excellence in UG, PG, M.Sc. (Engineering) by offering Research and Doctoral programmes at par with IITs and National Institutes of Excellence. It has also set an objective to evolve itself as an R & D centre to promote and pursue research in the areas of current industrial and all other relevant thrust areas in Engineering.


      
Faculty Details
Sl. No.	Name	Designation	Experience
(Years)	Major Areas of Interest and Research
1	Dr. U. N. Kempaiah	Chairman and Professor	33	Manufacturing Processes, Materials, MEMS, Welding
2	Dr. S. Paul Vizhian	Professor	32	Materials, composites, Machine Design,Stress Analysis
3	Dr. N. Lakshmana Swamy	Professor	32	Materials & Manufacturing Related Areas
4	Dr. Shivarudraiah	Professor	30	Composite Materials, FEM, Wear and Fracture Mechanics and Tribology
5	Dr. B. M. Rajaprakash	Professor	34	Manufacturing Processes, CAD/CAM & Robotics, Al in Manufacturing, Friction Stir Welding, Acoustic Emission in FSW, Hybrid Composites & Friction Stir Processing
6	Dr. G. Harish	Professor	32	Production Engineering, Foundry, Composites, Thermal Engineering
7	Dr. C. K. Umesh	Professor	30	Cutting tools, Manufacturing Process, Thermal Engineering, CFD, Micro-Channels & Heat Pipes
8	Dr. H. C. Chittappa	Professor	28	Design of materials for Impact, Energy Absorption behavior of composite materials, MMC’s FE Approach of Analysis of Design & Impact Application
9	Dr. H. K. Shivananda	Professor	23	Advanced Materials, Nano Composites
10	Dr. Chandrashekar Bendigeri	Professor	23	FEM,Smart Materials, Composite Materials, Bio Materials, Nano Technology
11	Dr. H. N. Vidyasagar	Professor	32	Composite Materials
12	Dr. D. K. Ramesh	Professor	20	Bio Fuels, alternate Energy, CFD and Heat Transfer
13	Dr.R. Saravanan	Professor	22	Manufacturing, Materials, Thermal, Design Engineering
14	Dr. M. Shantharaja	Associate Professor	23	Materials, Plastic Deformation, Composites
15	Dr. H.G.Hanumantharaju	Associate Professor	28	Bio-Materials,Composite Materials, Smart Materials, FEM
16	Dr. R. Rajashekar	Associate Professor	20	Friction Stir Welding, Machine Vision, Acoustic Emission, Composite Materials, CAD, Robotics
17	Dr. G. Premkumar	Assistant Professor	19	Thermal Engineering, Heat Transfer, Fuel cells
Chairperson
Dr. H. C. Chittappa

Office Phone
080-22961871
Monday to Saturday 10.00am - 5.00pm
Second & Fourth Saturdays are holiday

Campus Location
K R circle, Bangalore-01



2.Civil engineering
The Department of Civil Engineering was established in 1917.
The Department of Civil Engineering was started in the year 1917 off ering B.E. course in Civil Engineering and has been accredited by AICTE New Delhi. The department was functioning in the city campus of Bangalore University at K R Circle until 1974 and was later shifted to Jnana Bharathi Campus. The department has a built-up area of 8800 sq.m. The Department offered under graduate courses (B.E.) in Civil Engineering till 1960 and later started PG courses (M E in Structural Engineering and Geo-technical Engineering) and now the department offers PG courses in eight different fields of specialization. It is one of the Quality Improvement Programme Departments of the MHRD offering admissions to M.E. and PhD programmes for the teachers drawn from AICTE approved engineering colleges.

While the primary task of the faculty is to produce efficient man power in Civil Engineering to meet the rapidly changing needs of the society, it also strives to achieve eminence in focused areas of research and to realize the economic potential of its R&D capabilities. A nurturing environment has been created to encourage the social, cultural, physical and intellectual developments of the students as well as to sharpen their leadership qualities and interpersonal skills. The alumni of the department have occupied key positions both in India and abroad bringing laurels to their alma mater. The UG curriculum strikes a balance between engineering fundamentals and applications and thereby preparing graduates for both research and professional practice in the Civil Engineering disciplines. From the year 1998, the department has got the academic autonomy and the syllabus of the UG course designed to meet the requirements of the industrial demand with the orientation towards CAD. Introduction to CAD, applications in Civil Engineering, regular technical visits, project tours and design project works are the features of the course contents. The department offers Ph.D. degree programmes in all the major fields of specialization in Civil Engineering and also offers two years research programme encompassing the degree of M.Sc Engineering by Research.


   
Faculty Details
SlNo.	Nameof the Faculty	Qualification	Designation	Specialisation
1	A. S. RAVIKUMAR	Ph.D(IISc.)	Professor and Chairman	Water Resources Engg.
2	H. N. RAMESH	Ph.D(IISc.)	Professor and Principal	Geotechnical Engg.
3	B. SANTHAVEERANAGOUD	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Environmental Engg.
4.	B. NAGENDRAPRAKASH	Ph.D(IISc.)	Professor	Environmental Engg.
5	L. MANJESH	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Highway Engg.
6	M. KESHAVAMURTHY	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Structural Engg.
7	S. GANGADHARA	Ph.D(IISc.)	Professor	Geotechnical Engg.
8	SHIVAKUMAR J.NYAMATHI	Ph.D(NITK)	Professor	Water Resources Engg.
9	A. V. SRIRAM	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Water Resources Engg.
10	SADATH ALI KHAN ZAI	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Construction Tech.
11	P. S. NAGARAJA	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Construction Tech.
12	B. VISWANATH	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Geotechnical Engg.
13	B. P. ANNAPURNA	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Pre Stressed Concrete
14	L. GOVINDARAJU	Ph.D(IISc.)	Professor	Geotechnical Engg.
15	G. SURESH	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Highway Engg.
16	A. KRISHNA	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Geotechnical Engg.
17	M. INAYATHULLA	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Water Resources Engg.
18	N. JAYARAMAPPA	Ph.D(BU)	Professor	Structural Engg.
19	S. BHAVANI SHANKAR	M.Tech(VTU)	Associate Prof.	Structural Engg.
20	T. KIRAN	Ph.D(BU)	Associate Prof.	Structural Engg.
21	H. B. REKHA	Ph.D(BU)	Associate Prof.	Environmental Engg.
22	K. V. S. B. RAJU	Ph.D(BU)	Associate Prof.	Geotechnical Engg.
23	CHETHAN, K	Ph.D(NITK)	Assistant Prof.	Structural Engg.
24	H. C. MUDDARAJU	Ph.D(BU)	Assistant Prof.	Geotechnical Engg.
25	NAVANEETHAHOMBALI, B N	MS(Uni. of Florida, USA)	Assistant Prof.	Construction Tech.
26	Mrs. MANASA, H	M.Tech(NITK)	Assistant Prof.	Construction Tech.





3.Electrical engineering
The Department of Electrical Engineering was established in 1921.
Department of Electrical Engineering

The Department of Electrical Engineering, established in 1921, is one of the oldest Departments in the country offering B.E. program in Electrical Engineering. Currently, the Department of Electrical Engineering offers B.Tech. program in Electrical and Electronics Engineering, M.Tech. programs in Power Systems, Power Electronics and Control & Instrumentation. The Department has grown over the years guided by the vision and dedication of its faculty. The Department has qualified and experienced faculty who have published Research papers in reputed National and International Journals/Conferences.

The Department has been among the pioneers in starting B.E. program in Electronics & Communication Engineering in 1968 and B.E. program in Computer Science & Engineering in 1982. The Department of Electrical Engineering was bifurcated into the Department of Electrical Engineering and the Department of Electronics and Computer Science Engineering in 1994. The CBCS Scheme was introduced for both UG/PG programs in 2018, with the syllabus for both UG and PG programs being revised once in every four years to meet the requirements of the industry.

It has necessary infrastructure such as Electrical Machines Lab (AC and DC Machines Labs), Power Electronics lab, Microprocessor lab, Sensors & Instrumentation Lab and Computer Lab. The Department has procured sophisticated equipment like LabVolt Power Electronic Converter modulus, Relay Test Bench, DSP based DC and AC drives, Transmission Line Model, VAR Compensator Model and Generator Protection Model etc. The software packages like MiPower, PSpice, PSim and MATLAB are available. The Department has excellent interaction with Industry and Research laboratories. Research Scholars from CPRI, NAL, ISRO and teachers from other Engineering colleges have registered for the Ph.D. program and pursuing research in the Department.


   
Faculty Details
TEACHING STAFF STRENGTH

Professor	Associate Professor	Assistant Professor	Research Scholars
05	10	03	05


Sl No	Name	Qualification	Designation	Field of Specialization
1	Dr. T.S. Prasanna	Ph.D.	Professor	Power Systems
2	Dr. Y.R. Manjunatha	Ph.D.	Professor	Power Electronics
3	Dr. H.R. Ramesh	Ph.D.	Professor	Power Electronics
4	Mr. M.V. Kashinath	M.E.	Associate Professor	Power Systems
5	Ms. M.N. Suneetha	M.E. (Ph.D.)	Associate Professor	Power Systems
6	Ms. B.C. Sujatha	M.E.	Associate Professor	Power Systems
7	Mr. D. Venkatesha	B.E.	Associate Professor	Electrical
8	Ms. H.S. Veena	M.E.	Associate Professor	Power Systems
9	Dr. Prasanna Kumar. H	Ph.D.	Associate Professor	Bio Medical Instrumentation and Image Processing
10	Dr. Guruswamy K.P.	Ph.D.	Associate Professor	Power Electronics
11	Dr. Madhusudhana. J	Ph.D.	Associate Professor	Power Electronics
12	Mr. Manjappa. N	M.Tech.	Associate Professor	Power Systems & Power Electronics
13	Ms. Hemavathi. R	M.E.	Associate Professor	Power Electronics
14	Ms. Shobha K.P.	M.E. (Ph.D.)	Assistant Professor	Power Electronics
15	Mr. C.M. Maheshan  	M.E., MBA (Ph.D.)	Assistant Professor	Power & Energy Systems
16	Mr. Raghavendra T.N.	M.E.	Assistant Professor	Power Electronics



4.Electronics engineering
The Department of Electronics Engineering was established as a separte entity in 1994.
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering

The Department of Electronics and Computer Science Engineering was established as a separate department in the year 1994 under the leadership of Dr H N.Shivashankar. The department was further bifurcated into Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering and the Department of Computer science and Engineering in the year 2004. The syllabus is set and is revised from time to time in order to keep in pace with the Industry, growing rapidly with the newer technologies. In addition to regular undergraduate courses, the department also off ers postgraduate courses in Electronics and Communication.

The department runs evening college to help the diploma and working students. Presently the intake of the department is 120 for regular undergraduate course and 25 for the postgraduate courses. The Department has been producing effi cient engineers for the fast progressing Electronics Industry. The Department has a small but an excellent staff , who is dedicated to model the best students for the industry as well as the society. The Department has necessary infrastructure such as Communication laboratory, Digital laboratory, Device Laboratory, Microprocessor Laboratory, VLSI laboratory, and Simulation laboratory. Many students in Under Graduate course are working to publish their own research papers.






5,Computer Science engineering
The Department of Computer Science Engineering was created as an independent body in 2004.
The B. E. course in Computer Science Engineering was started in the year 1982 by the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering was established as a separate Department in the year 2004. The Department includes both Computer Science Engineering and Information Science Engineering. The Department off ers both UG & PG courses since. With the Information Technology progressing very fast with continuous developments, the syllabus of both Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses undergoes revision frequently as per Industry standards.

Currently the Department flourishes with two Undergraduate Courses, six Post Graduate Courses and a Ph.D Course with more than 900 students, 20 full time research scholars, 15 teaching staff and 10 non-teaching staff. The Department also has excellent relationships with companies and research laboratories, where students can be engaged on projects. Modelled with amenities like computer centre with internet facility, library and laboratories students are encouraged to practice and implement technical subjects earning all round development. We have students excelling in inter collegiate coding competitions and also presenting papers at National and International conferences adding to the accolades of the Institution. Outside the classroom, students benefit from an extensive alumni network that help with co-curricular projects and provide internship and career opportunities. Computer Science is a vibrant department which will continue to make important contributions to key issues facing society in areas such as healthcare, computing, networked communications and information security.


      
Faculty Details
TEACHING STAFF STRENGTH

Professor	Associate Professor	Assistant Professor	Guest Faculty	Research Scholars
07	00	10	20	14


Sl. No.	Name of the Teacher	Educational Qualifications	Post held	Field of Specialization
1	Dr. P. Deepa Shenoy	Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Professor	Data Mining
2	Dr. Thriveni J	M. E, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Professor	Ad hoc Networks
3	Dr. Manjula S.H	M. E, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Professor	Wireless Sensor Networks
4	Dr. Dilip Kumar S. M	M. Tech, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Professor	Ad hoc Networks
5	Dr. Champa H.N	M. Tech, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Professor	Image Processing
6	Dr. Arunalatha J. S	M. E, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Professor	Biometrics
7	Dr. H. S Vimala	M. E, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Professor	Image Processing
8	Dr. Lata B. T	M. Tech, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Assistant Professor	Wireless Sensor Networks
9	Dr. Pushpa C.N	M. Tech, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Assistant Professor	Web Mining
10	Dr. Kiran K	M. E, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Assistant Professor	Computer Networks
11	Dr. Tanuja R	M. E, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Assistant Professor	Network Security
12	Dr. Dharmendra Chouhan	M. E, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Assistant Professor	Grid Computing
13	Dr. Venkatesh	M. Tech, Ph. D (Comp.Sc)	Assistant Professor	Wireless Sensor Networks
14	Smt. Samyama Gunjal G. H	M. Tech, (Ph. D)	Assistant Professor	Computer Science & Engg.
15	Dr. Sunil Kumar G	M. E, Ph. D(Comp.Sc)	Assistant Professor	Cognitive Networks
16	Dr.Kumaraswamy S	M. E, Ph. D(Comp.Sc)	Assistant Professor	Data Mining
17	Dr Prathibhavani P. M	M. E, Ph. D(Comp.Sc)	Assistant Professor	Wireless Sensor Networks





6.Architecture
The Department of Architecture was established in the year 1967.
The Department of Architecture was established in the year 1967. Bachelor Degree in Architecture was established in UVCE for the first time in Karnataka under the leadership of Prof S.G. Pardhy. Situated in the Jnana Bharathi Campus, the department has well equipped library which has been serving as a resource centre to them and to many other colleges as well. The department has a consultancy wing by the name "The Design Cell" that takes up many consultancy projects for the university.

The students have been maintaining good academic records since the inception of the department. They have won many prizes at both State and national level competitions organized by the National Association of Architecture Students (NASA), several alumni have distinguished themselves in respective fields. Indulging in state of the art practices, the students are well equipped with current engineering procedures and have good reach to subject knowledge. The department encourages regular technical visits, project tours and design project works as part of the course curriculum. Architects produced from the University have been in highly notable positions in India and abroad making their institution and nation proud.


Faculty Details
TEACHING STAFF STRENGTH

Professor	Associate Professor	Assistant Professor	Guest Faculty	Research Scholars
00	01	04	25	00


Sl. No.	Name of the Teacher	Educational Qualifications	Post held	Field of Specialization
1	Dr.P.Pavan Kumar	B.Arch.,M.U.R.P.,Ph.D	Chairman, Associate Professor	Urban and Regional Planning
2	Satyam J Vora	B.Arch.,M.Tech.	Assistant Professor	Construction and Project Management
3	Murali.J	B.Arch.,M.Arch.(RED)	Assistant Professor	Real Estate Development
4	Ranganath M.N	B.Arch.,M.L.A	Assistant Professor	Landscape Architecture
5	Suchitra C.R	B.Arch.,M.L.A	Assistant Professor	Landscape Architecture

