UVCE Highlights

First Engineering College of Karnataka
Established in 1917 under the name Government Engineering College, it is the fifth engineering college in the country.

100 Years of Legacy
What started off with 20 students in civil and mechanical branches, now has over 3300 students in 7 different branches.

Vision of Sir M Visvesvaraya
In order to develop a skilled force among the boys from Mysore, BharatRatna Sir M Visvesvaraya envisioned the college in 1917.

Campus Location
The main campus is situated at KR Circle, in neighbourhood of Vidhana Soudha, while the other is situated amidst Jnana Bharati Campus spread over 50 acres

Sri B Muthuraman
Chairman, Governing Council, UVCE
Mr Muthuraman holds degrees in B.Tech in Metallurgical Engineering from IIT, Madras (India) and a MBA from XLRI, Jamshedpur. Mr Muthuraman joined Tata Steel in 1966 and was appointed as Executive Director in 2000, Managing Director of the Company in 2001 and non-executive Vice Chairman in 2009. He was the Chairman of the Board of Governors of IIT, Kharagpur; NIT, Jamshedpur and XLRI, Jamshedpur. Mr Muthuraman has been conferred with the prestigious “Padma Bhushan” award in 2012, from Government of India for his significant contribution to Indian Trade & Industry.
He has now been appointed as the Chairman of Governing Council for University of Visvesvaraya College of Engineering, an autonomous institution under the Karnataka State Govt.

Prof Subhasish Tripathy
Director, UVCE
Dr. Subhasish Tripathy has served as Professor (Higher Administrative Grade) at the Department of Geology and Geophysics, IIT Kharagpur. Hehas been the Dean of Faculty and Interim Dean (Planning & Coordination) at IIT Kharagpur. He has also been the Dean (Academic) and Deputy Director of IIT Bhubaneswar. Prof. Tripathy was the Head, Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law; Head, Center for Ocean River Atmospheric and Land Sciences at IIT Kharagpur.
He was the founding Head of the School of Earth, Ocean and Climate Sciences and was the lead for establishment of Bay of Bengal Coastal Observatory at IIT Bhubaneswar during his tenure from 2011-2016.



Dr B M Rajaprakash
Dean of Engineering
Professor, Mechanical Engineering Dept


Dr Dilip Kumar
Placement Officer
Professor, Computer Science Engineering Dept
Announcements
Applications are invited from the eligible and interested students seeking change of branch in 3rd semester BTech for the academic year 2024-25 Click for Details
Application for the post of Guest Faculty (for Non Engineering subjects) can be found here
For Hostel Admissions related Application form, click here for more details.
For the latest stats regarding the campus recruitment in UVCE, Click Here
World-Wide Recognition
The oldest and most venerated Engineering Colleges in Karnataka, with its unique mix of the State of the Art Education and active industrial collaboration is recognized globally

Research
Most students are involved in Research and have published Technical papers and also been acknowledged in International Conferences and Journals in the last few years.

Skill Development
The college focuses on overall development of students comprising of both academic and extra curricular activities.

Great Environment
The students of this college are hardworking, cultured, highly disciplined and have preserved the cherished values of this institution over the years.

Campus Recruitment
The college has an excellent Industry - Institution interaction with all the reputed Global Companies visiting the campus.

Hostel Facilties
The College provides hostel facilities for boys and girls separately both in the Jnana Bharathi and City Campus to reduce the travel time.

Take a tour of UVCE
About
University of Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE) was established in the year 1917 by Bharat Ratna Sir M Visvesvaraya. Currently an autonomous institution, the College provides seven engineering courses – Electronics and Communication, Electrical and Electronics, Mechanical, Computer Science, Information Science, Artificial Intelligence and Civil Engineering apart from Architecture

QuickLinks
College Intake
Admission Process
Syllabus
Placement Office
Fests
Student Clubs
Contact
Office Address - K R Circle, Dr Ambedkar Veedhi, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560001
Info line - +080-22961890
Email - info@campusuvce.in
Plan a visit
© UVCE 2024-2025 - All rights reserved | Designed and Developed by TheWebsiteWeavers.