==placements==


The Training and Placement Office was started by Dr. M Channa Reddy in 1989 to facilitate campus recruitment for UVCE students.Its Mission is To act as a liaison between the industry and students in order to fulfill the aspiration of the students in securing the right job and to ensure placements for all students of various branches of the college.

In the recent past around 90% of our out-going students have been recruited by leading organizations that include a large number of globally recognized multi-national and Indian companies. The academic excellence at UVCE is reflected in its student’s exemplary record in placements in the corporate and engineering sectors. UVCE has consistently maintained an excellent recruitment record.

The Training Programme which is being offered at the institutional level and being facilitated by the Training & Placement Office is aimed at orienting the students with life skills. Career orientation is achieved by training the students on the skills needed for a career in the corporate. It nurtures industryinstitute interaction, by organizing and coordinating frequent industrial visits, in-plant training and projects of industrial relevance for the students, with the sole aim of zeroing down the gap between the industry & academia.

Student Placement Coordinators play a major role in making the students aware of the corporate practices and assist the Placement Officer in contacting the companies and inviting them for campus recruitment.



Latest Statistics
2022-23
Around 115 companies have visited UVCE so far for the 2023 Batch Students and more than 353 offers have been made to students across various streams.

2021-22
Many prestigious companies have visited UVCE for campus recruitment of current batch students and around 653 offers have been made to students across various streams. The highest package was 30 LPA, which was offered to 3 students.

2020-21
Over 142 companies had visited to recruit 2021 Batch Students and more than 435 offers were made with good compensation packages, with the highest being 50.25 LPA offered by an Australian-based organisation.